                                   Project5


RUN LEVEL


1- what is a run level?
	A run level is the preset state in which a Linux system operates.

2- What is the default runlevel?
	The default runlevel in linux is the level in which the OS boots.

3- What is the advantage of having different run levels?


4- What commands would you type to check the system's runlevel?
	# who -r or runlevel	

5- what is the difference between run level 3 and runlevel 5 in linux?


6- why do you think companies prefer runlevel 3?
	To avoid unnecessairy programs running on, save more space in the
	memory.	
 
7- what is the difference between runlevel 1 and runlevel 2?
	Run level 1 is a single (root) user mode (maintenance) and Run level 2
	is a multi users maintenance mode.

8- what is the difference between the present runlevel and the default runlevel?

 
9- how do you check the default runlevel on your system?
	You have to display the content of the file /etc/inittab.

10- where does the system checks for the default runlevel during boot up?
	The system is checking in the file /etc/inittab, at the last line  
	(id:5:unitdefault runlevel. Run level 5) during the boot up.

11- a client complains that the system is booting up but is staying in maintenance mode 
12- what can be the problem?
	The default run level is probably set up on run level 2.

13- How can you fix this problem?
	You have to access the file /etc/inittab and modify the default run level on 3 or 5.

14- consider you are on run level 5 , how do you change your system temporaly to runlevel 3?
	You have to type the command# vi /etc/inittab, on id:5:unitdefault runlevel, you replace 
	5 with 3 and save the file. 

BOOT UP PROCESS

1- walk me thru the boot up process in linux.
2- what file does the grub check for instructions?
3- what file does the kernel checks to mount all the file system?
	

4- What file does the init program checks for the default run level?
	/etc/initab

6- Boot one of your server to maintenance mode and change the root password to week2hot
